---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-01-31T16:52:43Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=804
params:
  published: false
slug: 531-journal-no-3
title: 531 Journal No. 3
wordpress_id: 804
---

Rebecca and I have decided to combine our ideas and work together. I spent four hours Saturday at the grease car conversion workshop. It was a first of its kind event for Los Angeles, as far as the organizers knew. About 30 people showed up, no media present. I met a couple fantastic characters, one whose name is Ray and is simply fascinating. He just bought a diesel van last week and drive it back from Texas, and he's going to conert it to run on waste vegetable oil. There was a vehicle there that had just been converted to run off of it and the owner lives in Los Angeles, so I'll be in contact with him. The "character" I met is named Ray Cirino and a friend of his was there too, I forget her name, but she went to USC film school about 12 years ago and asked me, "does Doe Mayer still teach there? I was in her class." So it truly is a small world after all.

Anyway, I'm excited after Saturday's workshop and I'll definitely be in contact with several people I met there. One woman actually videos a lot of the meetings and she has lots of footage she offered for me to look through. I also learned Woody Harrelson supports this type of endeavor and he made a film about a biodiesel bus he helped create. I also have another connection to Woody through my uncle -- they went to Hanover College in Indiana together. I was informed about a couple other videos on the matter, such as "The End of Suburbia."

I think I can start to answer one of my questions -- the particular mindset of the veggie car people. They all seem to be quite environmentally conscious and grassroots oriented. I did not meet anyone there who was interested in it strictly to save money, in fact one man pays about $3.50/gallon for 100% biodiesel purely out of an environmental concern. He said there is a pump in Ventura and another in Santa Barbara -- it might be worthwhile to take a couple fueling trips there to meet some folks at the pumps or at least the station owners.

Getting back to Ray and the characters, I can see how dangerously easy it could be to make him look foolish. He has some ideas that are very far from mainstream. For example, he is developing a rocket stove, which is made out of machined rocket parts and burns small pieces of wood very efficiently. He also wants to use this stove to heat a mobile pizza business that he will run from his new veggie van. His trailer will be a dragon of some kind -- apparently he likes dragons -- and he will go around to local businesses like car dealerships where the salesmen don't want to lose potential sales by taking a lunch break. I could do a whole documentary on this one fascinating individual, but I know I shouldn't put all my eggs in one basket. After the workshop I felt almost as if I were coming out of another parallel universe -- you know, that feeling you get of being transported to another reality by a good book or movie. I think that is an amazing feeling and something I should strive for. The amount of goodwill and helpfulness that Saturday's collection of people presented was inspiring.
