---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-02-07T21:28:44Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=734
published: false
slug: 531-journal-no-4
title: 531 Journal No. 4
wordpress_id: 734
---

This week brings the beginnings of collaboration to the project. Rebecca and I met and talked. We're still getting to know each other, but we agreed to help each other out for the interviews and such.

I'm pleased that so many people write me back in e-mails -- and quickly, too. Almost everyone I e-mailed from the first round e-mailed me back again within a day of my next message. There are several more characters I'm investigating on the pro-VO side of things, but I haven't actually met any of them yet.... Some of them seem more enthusiastic than the others. I have one guy who makes biodiesel but doesn't use it in his car, and another who just bought a diesel Mercedes, literally a few days ago. Another guy is in the process converting a van and will go around talking to elementary schools. A couple of the people I've e=mailed are in the film business. One is even accustomed to giving interviews -- a freelance journalist/reporter. So I'm thinking there's something in the creative temperament that predisposes towards off-beat ideas such as cars on VO.

I will not interview Ray this week because I don't think either of us is ready for that just yet. He did invite me to a city repair workshop at the ecovillage this Saturday. Rebecca has class then so she won't be able to attend, but I'll meet up with Ray again and meet some more folks who are into the whole permaculture/renewable energy thing. Networking! I will instead interview a classmate and friend of mine. That will pose its own challenges, being so "informal," as it were. But what lessons I learn this week will undoubtedly apply to the formal project itself as I develop relationships with the "participants."
