---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-03-22T07:24:48Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=782
draft: true
slug: 531-journal-no-9
title: 531 Journal No. 9
wordpress_id: 782
---

And thus begins the final stretch of our voyage. My thoughts.... I'm feeling pretty good about the proposal/written part of the pitch, but the 2nd draft still needs some improvements. It needs to be rearranged to flow better and some parts need to be lengthened while others need to be shortened. I also think the voice needs clarification. I would really like to do some kind of multimedia whiz-bang presentation but am hesitant to mess with the status quo. I also feel that while 14 minutes may seem like a lot of time to some, it really may not be enough time to get into any type of depth at all without thorough preparation and almost even scripting beforehand.

I'm gravitating more towards the idea of following several characters on their quests to learn about and use biodiesel and SVO. This presents an opportunity to indirectly teach the audience about the subject without it becoming a lecture. I do like the idea of doing a brief expository animation at the beginning of the project as this can establish many areas of the film quickly and in a visual manner (i.e. no long boring voiceover).

I'm also not opposed to the possibility of participating as a character in the film myself. I believe that if could add a certain element of excitement to the whole thing, but then again, knowing what characters go through from start to finish, I may want to reconsider that mindset. At any rate, I will proceed as if I were not to partake as an actor in my own project. Especially since when the audience learn of my theatrical background, should I choose to tell them, they might become preoccupied with what is fact and what is fiction, a distraction I may not want to incorporate into this project.
