---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-03-29T08:58:55Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=789
published: false
slug: 531-journal-no-10
title: 531 Journal No. 10
wordpress_id: 789
---

Many hours have I worked on the treatment. Writing, rewriting. Many hours has Rebecca worked. I hope it gets up to snuff. I think it will. We're starting to focus more on the dramatics and less on the esoterics of the documentary.

We haven't shot for the pitch tape as much as we'd like to because the air has been too nice lately. We want smog to help prove our point and there isn't much to be seen. Hopefully things will get worse. :slightly_smiling_face:

I find many good approaches to take on this project so I think I really need to make some hard choices and find one method of attack for the subject. There is the environmentalist heavy-handed approach, the same thing we've heard a million times already in the media. Then there's the approach where we just say, "Ooh, look what he's doing. Isn't that neat?" There's the following a single person on a quest for biodiesel approach, which might make a good framework from which to start the project. The more I think about it, the more I consider that being in the documentary myself could be advantageous and disadvantageous. I could always provide the dramatic content if we're lacking something, but then that circumvents what I find is the main challenge: getting it from non-actors. I certainly don't want to "cheat," but is it really cheating? Would acting in my own documentary make it too easy? Or would it considerably complicate matters? For one, I hate watching myself on video.... Well, at any rate, it's something to stew on for a while.
