---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-01-24T08:35:44Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=805
params:
  published: false
slug: 531-journal-2
title: '531 Journal #2'
wordpress_id: 805
---

D'oh! Someone has a book called "From the Frier to the Fuel Tank." I don't friggin' believe it. Just my luck. Oh well, I can come up with a better title for my movie anyway. :slightly_smiling_face:

As I delve deeper into the grease-powered car underworld, I'm noticing people starting to form what they call "co-ops" for collection and filtration of used grease so they can turn it into fuel. I also noticed an interesting topic in some of these online discussion forums: people can't sell this reprocessed oil as a fuel because of the government, fuel standards, and big oil possibly swooping down on them and putting them out of business. That creates an interesting conflict for those who would like to turn a small profit from their enterprising efforts. Some suggested to simply call it a "fuel additive" or get their buyers to sign a waiver saying that they would not use the VO (vegetable oil) for on-road purposes. At any rate, this pits the government, in big oil's pocket against the ostensibly environmentally conscious -- although more likely wallet-friendly -- individual everyman. I see political activism on a personal level, and I'm sure there is at least one angry character out there who wants to stick it to the man. Then I must continually reexamine my underlying issues: what is this really about? About finding a cheap and easy way to save a buck? About saving the environment no matter what the cost? About finding a balance between the two? Is it about people making a political statement with their cars and fuel? Is it about wanting to have a choice at all? Is it about escaping the dominion of the oil companies? Or is it simply making a personal statement, being "cool" and saying that you're able to fuel up your car with McDonald's fryer oil?

I read in a post that Rudolph Diesel, the inventor of the diesel engine, initially envisioned his engine to be used with all sorts of different fuels -- vegetable oils, tallow, whatever -- to give the people the option of not using petroleum based fuels, but this idea didn't gather enough momentum before his death. Perhaps I can give this idea a kickstart and get people to reexamine why they make the choices they make, or more importantly: to realize that whether they know it or not, where and what they choose to fuel is a choice in itself, even though it may not seem that way.

Anyway, I just sent out almost a dozen e-mails to prospective characters. Hopefully some of them will have interesting stories. A few have e-mailed me back with varying degrees of interest in the subject.
