---
author: philrw
categories:
- Film/TV/Theater
comments: true
date: "2005-03-04T22:02:00Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/2005/03/04/hire-me/
slug: hire-me
title: Hire Me
wordpress_id: 362
---

I feel as though I should post something meaningful in my blog today. A segment of tonight’s _Platforum_ was on blogs. (aside: okay, I know y’all don’t watch _Platforum_. It’s on [TrojanVision](http://trojanvision.com/), which nobody watches, but I direct on Fridays so I’m forced to watch the show. Actually, come to think of it, I could direct them without actually looking at the shots....) Anyway, one of the guests felt that she would never put her personal feelings on the internet for all the world to read. But the way I figure is it lets off steam, it acts as a journal of mental health for some of us, it lets us rant without forcing people to listen to us, and it’s fun, ‘cause hey, not too many people read this crap anyway. If I had interesting things to say on a particular subject then my readership might improve, but I’m not doing it for _them_, I’m doing it for _me_. This blog is purely masturbatory.

Now about the title of this entry: I thought I would start off talking about how I’ll need a job and a place to live come summer, but I figure I might not want to direct potential employers to this blogsite. However, damage being done if you are one, please hire me. I’m intelligent, a quick learner, very good with technical things, have a good ear and am a trained musician, have a performance/acting background, and am generally versatile. And also I’m quite handsome, if I do say so myself.

I can make movies and for the moment specialize in postproduction sound.

Okay, well that’s over. _Enterprise_ wasn’t on tonight so I have to find something to do with this hour’s gift from the network gods.
