---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-02-22T19:31:46Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=787
draft: true
slug: 531-journal-no-6
title: 531 Journal No. 6
wordpress_id: 787
---

I think my focus is coming together more each week. Sometimes I wish I could accelerate the process of figuring out what the project is about, but that's that. I want to keep focusing on economy vs. ecology. And economy has a double meaning in my case: finances and efficiency.

I'm still a little peeved that someone else came up with my title first. I really liked From the Fryer to the Fuel Tank, but it's a book. No great title has yet hit me so I'll be using a working title until closer to the pitch Something like Driving on Grease, but that doesn't sound as good.

I have to admit I was a bit overwhelmed by all the fine looking proposals handed out last week. One thing that struck me is the similarity of their format. I realize that the format has most likely been refined over the years but I would not like to feel constrained. I also believe that my pitch should contain something above and beyond -- a multimedia presentation perhaps. Or samples of biodiesel fuel.

I found an interesting point of conflict in exploring the first draft of the proposal -- the conflicts within the characters. For examply, George may want to but a diesel bus and convert it but he may be derailed by the ill health of his mother, whom he cares for. I find these conflicts at least as interesting as the external ones that pit character vs. character or character vs. powerful force. I wonder how to represent "the way things are" in a visual means. Certainly I can show the status quo, but what of the power behind it? Will fighting for change become Quixotic? If so, who or what are the windmills? Perhaps that is an apt metaphor for my own dilemma, viewing (or wanting to view) the biodiesel situation as too black-and-white without so many shades of gray....
