---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-04-12T05:33:59Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=773
draft: true
slug: 531-journal-no-12
title: 531 Journal No. 12
wordpress_id: 773
---

Four days and counting. Becks and I lucked out at the pumps today -- we decided to shoot me going to fill up at the biodiesel pump but as we were leaving a couple of guys came in driving a Jetta and we got them filling up with B100. It's probably for the best since I don't think I'm that interesting on camera, anyway. 

So lately I've been asking myself -- what is the main conflict behind the documentary? I know there are several possibilities to explore, and I suppose they won't be fully explored until editing, but there's this little voice in the back of my head saying, "Where's the conflict? Where's the dramatic tension in the story? And where's the story?" I wish that little voice would just shut up sometimes so I could get my work done.

Anyway, good smog today. Really clear (or not-clear) inversion layer. I hope it comes across on video. Becks is a really good shooter. We discussed some of the visual style and elements in Blockian language -- mostly shape and space as those are the most easily controlled in a documentary production environment. I thought the "system" could be portrayed by flat space and square shapes and biodiesel could be portrayed with deep space and circular, more organic objects and angles. We'll see. I'll have to explore the feasibility of this more.
