---
author: philrw
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: "2005-03-08T06:54:50Z"
link: https://philrw.wordpress.com/?p=784
published: false
slug: 531-journal-no-8
title: 531 Journal No. 8
wordpress_id: 784
---

I'm feeling better about the project this week. But as I gather more contacts and research more problems arise. What should I do with too many possible characters? I know it's good to have backups in case some of my characters don't work out, but when is enough enough? I wouldn't call it exactly success yet, but I'm getting leads that are taking me quite far from the trail of my original documentary. I suppose that's the point of this whole process, really; to see where the flow takes me. I just worry that I may become lost from the original spirit of the project -- I must look back on these journals and notes as I continue on.

I found an interesting lead on Saturday at the EcoVillage -- apparently GM wants the remaining EV'(Electric Vehicle) prototypes they have and a group is outside their facilities in Burbank 24/7 with video cameras in case they do just that. I also heard that Jay Leno offered GM $1 million for one of the cars and they turned him down.... Hmmm...... Might make an interesting investigation.

Continuing to track down other leads as well. Eric Lloyd Wright has property up in Malibu that he's turning into some sort of environmental retreat. (?) I'll find out more about that. Anyway, I hear his son drives or wants to drive an alternative fuel vehicle.

Not much else for this week. I'm looking forward to coalescing this pitch.
